Course Project - Getting and Cleaning Data
___________________________________________

Enclosed With this document are
- an "assignmentdata" set in txt format
- a codebook for the "assignmentdata" set in R markdown and reader friendly pdf formats 
- a "run_analysis" R script, that reproduces the conducted data modifications and analysis. 

Below follows a brief outline of the script's stage-wise data modifications and analysis.The various stages and their objectives are also outlined in comments throughout the script 


* Original data

The course assignment involves merging, tidying and analysing a selection of data files in the "UCI HAR Dataset". The original data was been captured to measure Human Activity Recognition by cell phone accelerometer and gyroscope sensors, applied in a total 561 features of six human motion activities. The data was captured with the aid of 30 human volunteers, 30% of whom were allocated to generate traioning data, and 70% to test data. The training and test data are provided in separate files to be combined in the assignment. 


* Identifiers and merging

Each complete record of the orignal data would constitute 

- An identifier of the subject who carried out the experiment.
- An activity code (provided with labels)
- A 561-feature vector with time and frequency domain variables generated by the phone sensors.

The information is supplied in different data files and seaparately for training and test data. Merging these files is not trivial, since the files lack common key identifier variables. The R script generates temporary record identifiers from row numbers, assuming record components in the various files are provided in arrangement to match each other row wise.


* Modifications to the original data 

The final "assignmentdata" set was constructed in three stages and thereafter analyzed.

** First stage
A "first-stage", common data set for test and training data, was created in two steps. In the first step, three data sets for each of test and training data, were merged ("c-bound"")into two "first-step" sets. The two sets covered 7352 and 2947 records for 23 and 7 indivuals respectively (conducting the same activities several times each). In the second step, the test and training sets were combined ("r-bound") into the first-stage data set with in total 10,299 records.

** Second stage
From the merged data set were selected and extracted, into an intermediate stagedata set; Subject and activity identifiers, and variables containing mean and standard deviations for each measurement of the activities for every subject. 

The variables in the i intermediate stage data set were assigned descriptive human readable variable names, as well as the adequate labels for the activity variable values.

** Third stage
The intermediate stage data was processed into a final, independent and tidy "assignmentdata"" set with the average values of each variable for each activity and subject, in total 180 observations (30 individuals in six activities), of 86 average measurement values each.

** Labeling and renaming
The data set comes with labels for six human activities and sparse human language descriptions of the 561 measurement features. These labels and descriptions have been applied (see Script). Abbreviations have been  adressed
in the following manner

"Acc" replaced with "Accelerometer"
"angle" replaced with "Angle"
"BodyBody" replaced with "Body"
^f" replaced with "Frequency"
"-freq()" replaced with "Frequency"
"gravity"  replaced with "Gravity"
"Gyro" replaced with "Gyroscope"
"Mag" replaced with "Magnitude"
"-mean()" replaced with "Mean"
"-std()" replaced with "STD"
"^t" replaced with "Time"
"tBody" replaced with "TimeBody"


